---
layout: post
title: ''
categories: []
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
author:
  login: admin
  email: charlespeters42@gmail.com
  display_name: admin
  first_name: ''
  last_name: ''
---

After thinking on it for a while (obviously :) ), I have decided to go through 1 Peter and translate. I have done much of Paul, and some of John, and smatterings of the gospels here and there, so I thought it would be fun to tackle a different writing style. Be on the look-out for pieces of translation here and there.

Something that has recently caught my interest (I might be a little late in the game, although I have been quite aware of it for a while) is the emergent church. I have done a little reading, and plan to do more. I hope more research answers some of my initial queries....

I don’t think there is anything wrong with acknowledging believers in the Orthodox and Roman Catholic churches, but what happens when Catholic theology (i.e., sola scriptura and scripture+tradition) collides with Protestant theology? I don’t doubt there may be true believers in the Roman Catholic church, but when its theology is studied closely, it does not reveal a similar soteriology. Quite the contrary.

The ones who are “searching”, who are “spiritual seekers” yet shun churches religiously (was that a pun? :) no pun intended), will they find what they are looking for in an emergent church? If the emergent church promotes a plurality of Christianities, so to speak, how will the so-called seeker come to know the Way, the Truth, and the Life? To provide ridiculously simplistic example, the doctrines of between the Pentecostal church, say, and the Roman Catholic church contain very vast differences. Again, while I very much agree that believers from all backgrounds need to stop contending over minor issues, what the emergent church seems to me to be promoting is a pluralism disguised by the church.

There is obviously a lot more to be said, and I plan on reading some of Brian McLaren's works, but if you have more knowledge than I to contribute, by all means do so. I don't want to give out unnecessary and nonrelevant criticism.