---
layout: post
title: Out with the Old
date: 2015-12-31
comments: true
published: true
---

Hello!

It's been a while since I've published on here, if you're not counting my class project. A lot of things have happened since I last posted any kind of reflection. I figured it was time for a good ol' update before 2015 completely ran out.

Significant happenings, in short: we moved cross-country in the middle of August, my brother got married in October, and my attention went toward fall quarter classwork

Some less significant happenings: I had my first taste of strong, boozy eggnog. I also managed not to mess up a whole roasted chicken recipe, and made bone broth from its remains. I'm still doing yoga, some weeks less than others. I've assembled some shelves, and might've awakened an inner pyromaniac by burning candles, and attempting to start fires in the wood stove. I LOVE a good fire. Oh, and I've become even more obsessed with houseplants.

Advent was hard, and I caught myself crying to Robbie Seay music instead of singing along. Christmastide has ushered in a feeling of optimism, and I think 2016 is going to be a very good year. I can think of several reasons why, at the moment:

1) I've made some New Year's resolutions. I'm not usually one for resolutions, because, let's be honest, I'm not good at keeping them. I hope to set forth some personal goals 2016 that will continue into the following years. Some are: eat more (Seriously! There are multiple reasons why I don't eat enough, and I feel it. I don't feel healthy and strong.), increase cardiovascular fitness (yoga isn't doing it, so I'm going to start walking/running again), be forthcoming about my boundaries, curse out loud at least twice per month (I think this is a separate blog post!), and establish daily structure (husband and I have already started one ritual: 6:45am coffee and tea, complete with a teapot, a French press, and matching cups and saucers all on a tray - it's really a lovely, quiet time).

2) We're not moving across states! We moved twice this year: from Lynchburg to Lewistown, and from Lewistown to Tacoma. Moving out of town is a soul-sucker, and I'm really glad we're not moving for the foreseeable future.

3) Job hunting has not been successful this year, so I'm going to devote some time to volunteering (which I should've been doing, anyhow), and writing more. I think having a writing buddy would help motivate me, so if you want one, too, hit me up!

4) Related to my health goals, I'm in the process of connecting with a nutritionist, in order to narrow down some of my food sensitivities, that are related to what my current doctor is treating as IBS. No more guessing what I can or cannot eat! (This is, of course, assuming that I find an awesome nutritionist right away, and don't have to spend my time shopping for one.)

5) I've let go of my legalistic impulses in regard to having a strict, regimented scripture reading and praying time. That is, I'm not going to beat myself up if I miss a day or three.

6) I've started getting regular, professional massages. They are wonderfully relaxing. Friends, if you don't mind physical touch, and can handle any possible side effects from a massage, get them!

7) I've started to (slowly) learn Python. I'm not sure how I'll be using it specifically, but it's a good skill to have.

8) This last in the list, but I don't think it's least. We'll be getting a new mattress within the next week! Sleeping has been a chore more nights than not, complete with various aches and pains. I'm excited to be able to sleep well and wake up feeling good.

What's got you excited for 2016?
