---
layout: post
title: One Tuesday Morning
date: 2015-07-07
comments: true
published: true
---

As Anne Lamott says, “butt in chair.”

Since I don’t have any brilliant ideas, but need to practice writing (last week's post sorely reminded me that I’ve gotten really rusty!), here is a chronicle of my morning.

7:25 First alarm rings, playing the intro to Almighty God (Bonus Track). Bleary eyed, I turn it off and set a new alarm for 30 minutes later. I had stayed up until past midnight, watching the newest episode of True Detective.

7:55, second alarm rings, as well as Charlie’s. I take my phone and quickly scroll through Twitter. Then I get out of bed, brush my hair and tie it back, get dressed (t-shirt and basketball shorts), clean and put on my glasses, and head out of the bedroom into the kitchen.

8:04 I decide to oil-pull, so I pour (it’s summer, which means the coconut oil is liquid!) 2 tablespoons of coconut oil into a tiny medicine measuring cup, and toss it into my mouth. I need to swish it around for 20 minutes.

8:04 I fill up the water bottles (one is mine, one is C’s) that are on the kitchen counter, put C’s in the refrigerator, and grab my morning supplements (L-Tyrosine) from the hall closet.

8:06 I take my water bottle and supplements to the living room, where I sit on the couch, browsing Twitter on my phone, until the 20 minutes of oil-pulling are up.

8:24 I spit out the coconut oil, and rinse out my mouth with warm water. Then I take my supplements.

8:25 I sit back on the couch, and read the Daily Lectionary scriptures on my iPad, using the ESV Bible app. I am not really partial to the ESV, but aesthetically speaking, it’s got the best Bible app around.

Around 8:45, Charlie emerges and asks for breakfast. I go back to the kitchen, fry up 10 pieces of uncured bacon on the cast iron griddle, and pour the grease into a mason jar. Then I scramble two eggs with some salt, pepper, and a bit of leftover bacon grease. I work on drinking water while I make breakfast. After I’m done I let C know it’s ready. He is situated in his home office, and requests his breakfast there.

9:05 I finally finish cleaning up the griddle after breakfast (I love the griddle, but it’s annoying to use for two reasons: 1. It’s heavy, 2. It must be cleaned directly after use), and decide to wipe down the dining table. I take the table runner and throw it in the washer along with various kitchen towels and placemats. Then I notice that the floor under the table needs to be swept, so I sweep.

9:20 I sit back down on the couch to enjoy my cup of green tea. (I have this morning eating and drinking routine that I follow: water, tea [or coffee if I’m on a coffee kick!], then breakfast. I can usually follow this routine fairly consistently because C isn’t always up in the morning. But, regardless of whether or not I cook breakfast for the both of us, I can never manage to sit down to my breakfast until between 10 and 11.) I contemplate doing yoga before breakfast, but skip it.

9:30 I get lost on social media, but I do find a FB event that is scheduled for tonight in the Seattle area. It is a Black Lives Matter Solidarity March, and I know some people who could potentially participate. I share the event. My friend Beth tweets that she is looking for things to do in Seattle today, so I try to help by suggesting the Central Library, Pike’s Place, UW Suzzallo, Kubota Garden, Underground Tours, and Space Needle.

Around 10:15 C comes into the living room to give me a hug, because he (we are) is excited about applying to a rental house we found in Tacoma last night. We joke around for a while, and notice my stomach growling. I remember that I need to eat breakfast.

10:20 I make a three-egg-white omelet with spinach and some parmesan, because that is how many eggs are left in the carton, and I don’t want to dig out the new carton of eggs. I take a peach out of the refrigerator, and cut a slice to taste test it. I decide to have that with my omelet.

10:30 I set down my breakfast on the table. I remember that I didn’t actually get the washing machine going, so I go back to the laundry room to fix it. C calls me from the office. I find out he needs the Comcast password, which I have forgotten. So I sit down with my iPad to retrieve the password, and type it into his computer.

10:40 I eat breakfast.

10:50 I decide to take out the kitchen trash. I notice there are maggots in the outside garbage can, again. I remember to take out the wet contents of the washer. I put the towels in the dryer, and lay out the table runner and placemats to dry. I also take a phone call. It is the hospital, reminding me about my procedure tomorrow.

11:00 Back on the couch, I take out my laptop to look at my brother’s resume, for which he had requested some editing help. The file format is RTF, so instead of experimenting with Apple Pages, I use Google Docs to make some tweaks and offer suggestions with the comments feature.

11:15 I decide to write this.

11:30 C asks me to check the mail. I think he is expecting something, because it is probably too early for the mail. While I’m out on the porch, I notice the jade is looking dry.

11:35 I water the jade, and as I’m wondering about the hanging plants, C says we’re going to my FIL’s house across the street to use his printer. We need to print out the rental application.

11:40 The printer isn’t working. We decide to go another route.

11:45 I come back to my laptop, and continue to work on this self-assigned writing practice.
