---
layout: post
title: A Pledge of Sorts
date: 2019-05-22
comments: true
published: true
---
Last week, I finished a somewhat vulnerable piece. I’d been working on it for several days, because when I first started to write it, I had to stop to cry. Multiple times that happened. It’s probably the most vulnerable piece I’ve written in a while. Why? Well, I rarely write about emotions or with strong emotions, unless it’s anger or frustration. But this? This was sadness. Grief.

It was also vulnerable because I shared a bit of my life that feels like privileged information. I don’t like sharing about where the inner workings of myself intersect. I don’t like sharing about what my dreams are, because when I do, I think they might dissipate into thin air and I will have to grapple with more loss, confusion, grief, and reorientation. That’s painful. I’ve had a lot of that over the past few years and I don’t wish to repeat it.

I was sitting on the sofa just a few minutes ago, berating myself for mindlessly scrolling through Twitter on my phone, and feeling a void of ideas. To write, one must have an idea that has the potential to come to fruition over a series of paragraphs. Imposter syndrome also whispered in my ear: it doesn’t matter, because none of your ideas are good enough.

So I got up, and made a matcha bulletproof latte (ask me if you’re curious). As I observed the green liquid spinning around in my mug, courtesy of the milk frother, I thought about how much energy women have spent debating their own humanity. The milk frother whirred heartily, and then began to sputter, and whirred softly. It needs new batteries. I was beginning to feel similarly that I need to replenish my energy source and use it more wisely.

I think cis men don’t spend too much time contemplating their humanity. With that, I include what they can or cannot do, or are allowed to do. I’m guessing they don’t have to debate this constantly with people. They just go about and do things.

_What if I adopted this attitude? What if I stopped wasting my energy, debating with people whether or not I am allowed to do something?_

I decide then to sit down and start writing, and to set a timer for one hour. Write for one hour without doing anything else except sipping the tea, even if the writing reads like a pile of crap.

See, I have this mindset that I am not entirely sure is of nurture or nature. I resist doing some things unless I know they will result in near perfection. Writing is one of them. Pursuing my dreams is also one of them. I am really good at researching things and thinking about them over and over.

_What if I applied this mindset to the pastoral work I think I can do? There’s always going to be a jerk parading Bible verses around in front of their misogyny. I’m tired of arguing complementarian v. egalitarian, even in my own mind. I need to reduce my exposure to people who go around subjugating women with scriptures (because it tempts me to argue with them)._

I’m not going to argue about these things anymore. I need to use my energy for things I know I can do, like brushing up on Koine Greek, or writing. If someone has energy to waste on these arguments with me, they can go waste it somewhere else. If I have good work to do, sitting around and arguing about it could be sinful; a betrayal of myself, and people who could benefit from my work.

So, I pledge not to throw my pearls before swine, anymore. Will you hold me to it? Do you want to take this pledge with me?
