---
layout: post
title: "MH & MD"
date: {}
comments: true
published: true
---

_(This is essentially the sequel to a post I published a little while ago, ["MH & Groupthink"](http://sabrinapeters.net/2014/06/02/MH-groupthink/). I would recommend reading that before you go ahead with reading this post any further.)_

It's been almost three months since my last post on Mars Hill. Around six weeks ago, I decided I was going to exegete the sermons of its preaching pastor, Mark Driscoll, giving precise examples, and maybe using circles and arrows to point out the things that are clearly in error or in support of his platform.

Then, on August 3, some gathered at the Bellevue campus in [peaceful protest](http://blog.seattlepi.com/seattlepolitics/2014/08/03/mars-hill-church-protest-mars-hill-resignations-mark-driscoll-apology/), garnering widespread media attention, and [crap starting hitting the fan](http://www.christianitytoday.com/gleanings/2014/august/acts-29-removes-mars-hill-asks-mark-driscoll-matt-chandler.html?paging=off). First, Acts29 bids Mars Hill and MD farewell. MD is removed from the Act Like Men conference's headlining speakers. Then, Lifeway removes most of MD's published works from their inventory. And then, the popular Resurgence conference is canceled, but not before Paul Tripp makes an incriminating statement regarding the MH Board of Advisors and Accountability.

I, among many, couldn't help but wonder what else was going to come next. MD was on vacation. What was he going to say once he returned? Was he going to resign, contrary to his earlier response? I have to admit, this snowball effect had me kinda feeling sorry for the guy. It was a long time coming, and to have it come all at once? Forget my sermon analysis.

Well, that feeling didn't last for long.

As some know, MD made a [statement](http://www.religionnews.com/2014/08/24/mark-driscoll-step-down-mars-hill-elders-review-charges/?utm_content=buffer6c4e0&utm_medium=social&utm_source=facebook.com&utm_campaign=buffer) to Mars Hill this past Sunday. In that statement was a non-apology apology. As in, the main message I and many others got was, "Sorry you caught me in the act. Also, I am sorry you can't seem to put up me." If you keep reading the linked article, you'll find out that MD actually hired a PR rep that had represented guys like Mitt Romney. At first it makes sense, because if MD is just really playing politics (i.e., not really apologizing), he definitely needs some help sprucing his image back up.

But on second thought, I did not think a PR rep is really necessary. Why? Well, it's not that difficult to see that Mark is fairly smart and crafty on his own. He majored in communications before he went off to plant churches. He knows how to convince people that he's right, whether he actually is, or not, and his main method for the past almost-two decades has been preaching.

I have said in other contexts that MD has been guilty of furthering his own agenda through his sermons, rather than preaching from the text itself. When I say "agenda", I really mean _platform_, by which I mean that these are the themes that MD emphasizes repeatedly as non-negotiables. These are the themes I am referring to:
  
-[MMA]Jesus  
-Complementarianism  
-Machismo

Let me unpack that.

First, recall most of MD's sermon titles. Which word is used the most? Yeah, Jesus. Believe it or not, the entire Bible is not about Jesus, but MD seems to think it is.

Second, how does MD think all men should look and behave? Well, frankly, a real man, according to him, looks and behaves like Jesus. But, who is Jesus? MD's preferred image is the warrior found in Revelation 19. Let's be somewhat literal for a second. He's got a sword coming from his mouth, because he wages war. He's ruling with an iron rod. He's got a tattoo (sort of of). His eyes are blazing, and he comes thundering on a powerful white horse. MD's ideal man exerts dominance and strength, and if the dude is anything like MD, brashness. 

If you're familiar with MD and his books, you might be saying, "Wait a minute. He wrote an entire book about Jesus quoting from the Old _and_ New Testaments." And that is true. I have read that book, wherein Jesus is described as having three primary roles: prophet, priest, and king. MD wants Jesus to be a strong warrior-teacher-preacher, so that's how he portrays him. I've personally heard him make fun of anyone who tries to attribute peacemaking and gentleness to Jesus. Here's the problem, though: Jesus is portrayed as strong AND gentle.

Third, which ties in nicely to the second point, is complementarianism. In order to complement men who exert their dominance and ultimate responsibility in the home, women are preferably homemakers. Women are only giving supporting roles in the church, because they are not allowed to have any sort of preaching or teaching responsilities over men.




